README.md, before:

goja
====

ECMAScript 5.1(+) implementation in Go.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/dop251/goja?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/dop251/goja)

It is not a replacement for V8 or SpiderMonkey or any other general-purpose JavaScript engine as it is much slower.
It can be used as an embedded scripting language where the cost of making a lot of cgo calls may
outweight the benefits of a faster JavaScript engine or as a way to avoid having non-Go dependencies.

This project was largely inspired by [otto](https://github.com/robertkrimen/otto).

Features
--------

 * Full ECMAScript 5.1 support (yes, including regex and strict mode).
 * Passes nearly all [tc39 tests](https://github.com/tc39/test262) tagged with es5id. The goal is to pass all of them.
 * On average 6-7 times faster than otto. Also uses considerably less memory.

Current Status
--------------

 * API is still work in progress and is subject to change.
 * Some of the AnnexB functionality is missing.
 * No typed arrays yet.

Basic Example
-------------

```go
vm := New()
v, err := vm.RunString("2 + 2")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
if num := v.Export(); num != 4 {
    panic(num)
}
```

Passing Values to JS
--------------------

Any Go value can be passed to JS using Runtime.ToValue() method. Primitive types (ints and uints, floats, string, bool)
are converted to the corresponding JavaScript primitives.

*func(FunctionCall) Value* is treated as a native JavaScript function.

*map[string]interface{}* is converted into a host object that largely behaves like a JavaScript Object.

*[]interface{}* is converted into a host object that behaves largely like a JavaScript Array, however it's not extensible
because extending it can change the pointer so it becomes detached from the original.

**[]interface{}* is same as above, but the array becomes extensible.

A function is wrapped within a native JavaScript function. When called the arguments are automatically converted to
the appropriate Go types. If conversion is not possible, a TypeError is thrown.

A slice type is converted into a generic reflect based host object that behaves similar to an unexpandable Array.

Any other type is converted to a generic reflect based host object. Depending on the underlying type it behaves similar
to a Number, String, Boolean or Object.

Note that the underlying type is not lost, calling Export() returns the original Go value. This applies to all
reflect based types.

Exporting Values from JS
------------------------

A JS value can be exported into its default Go representation using Value.Export() method.

Alternatively it can be exported into a specific Go variable using Runtime.ExportTo() method.

Regular Expressions
-------------------

Goja uses the embedded Go regexp library where possible, otherwise it falls back to [regexp2](https://github.com/dlclark/regexp2).

Exceptions
----------

Any exception thrown in JavaScript is returned as an error of type *Exception. It is possible to extract the value thrown
by using the Value() method:

```go
vm := New()
_, err := vm.RunString(`

throw("Test");

`)

if jserr, ok := err.(*Exception); ok {
    if jserr.Value().Export() != "Test" {
        panic("wrong value")
    }
} else {
    panic("wrong type")
}
```

If a native Go function panics with a Value, it is thrown as a Javascript exception (and therefore can be caught):

```go
var vm *Runtime

func Test() {
    panic(vm.ToValue("Error"))
}

vm = New()
vm.Set("Test", Test)
_, err := vm.RunString(`

try {
    Test();
} catch(e) {
    if (e !== "Error") {
        throw e;
    }
}

`)

if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
```

Interrupting
------------

```go
func TestInterrupt(t *testing.T) {
    const SCRIPT = `
    var i = 0;
    for (;;) {
        i++;
    }
    `

    vm := New()
    time.AfterFunc(200 * time.Millisecond, func() {
        vm.Interrupt("halt")
    })

    _, err := vm.RunString(SCRIPT)
    if err == nil {
        t.Fatal("Err is nil")
    }
    // err is of type *InterruptError and its Value() method returns whatever has been passed to vm.Interrupt()
}
```

NodeJS Compatibility
--------------------

There is a [separate project](https://github.com/dop251/goja_nodejs) aimed at providing some of the NodeJS functionality.

Commit message:

Detach from dop251 master branch
This updates all imports to refer to the fork at github.com/nilium/goja
and adds a notice in the README regarding this.

goja_nodejs is removed as a dependency from goja/goja.

.bak has also been added to the .gitignore, just because that was used
when changing the import paths via sed.

This branch is intended to be used in the event that the goja author
refuses to consider fixing the data race around the interrupt check in
the VM's runloop.

README.md, after:

goja
====

ECMAScript 5.1(+) implementation in Go.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/nilium/goja?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/nilium/goja)

*NOTE:* This is a fork of the github.com/dop251/goja package focused on stability over performance.
While there should be little discernible difference in performance, this fork is intended to fix
various issues with goja, including data races that the original author has described as
intentional.

It is not a replacement for V8 or SpiderMonkey or any other general-purpose JavaScript engine as it is much slower.
It can be used as an embedded scripting language where the cost of making a lot of cgo calls may
outweight the benefits of a faster JavaScript engine or as a way to avoid having non-Go dependencies.

This project was largely inspired by [otto](https://github.com/robertkrimen/otto).

Features
--------

 * Full ECMAScript 5.1 support (yes, including regex and strict mode).
 * Passes nearly all [tc39 tests](https://github.com/tc39/test262) tagged with es5id. The goal is to pass all of them.
 * On average 6-7 times faster than otto. Also uses considerably less memory.

Current Status
--------------

 * API is still work in progress and is subject to change.
 * Some of the AnnexB functionality is missing.
 * No typed arrays yet.

Basic Example
-------------

```go
vm := New()
v, err := vm.RunString("2 + 2")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
if num := v.Export(); num != 4 {
    panic(num)
}
```

Passing Values to JS
--------------------

Any Go value can be passed to JS using Runtime.ToValue() method. Primitive types (ints and uints, floats, string, bool)
are converted to the corresponding JavaScript primitives.

*func(FunctionCall) Value* is treated as a native JavaScript function.

*map[string]interface{}* is converted into a host object that largely behaves like a JavaScript Object.

*[]interface{}* is converted into a host object that behaves largely like a JavaScript Array, however it's not extensible
because extending it can change the pointer so it becomes detached from the original.

**[]interface{}* is same as above, but the array becomes extensible.

A function is wrapped within a native JavaScript function. When called the arguments are automatically converted to
the appropriate Go types. If conversion is not possible, a TypeError is thrown.

A slice type is converted into a generic reflect based host object that behaves similar to an unexpandable Array.

Any other type is converted to a generic reflect based host object. Depending on the underlying type it behaves similar
to a Number, String, Boolean or Object.

Note that the underlying type is not lost, calling Export() returns the original Go value. This applies to all
reflect based types.

Exporting Values from JS
------------------------

A JS value can be exported into its default Go representation using Value.Export() method.

Alternatively it can be exported into a specific Go variable using Runtime.ExportTo() method.

Regular Expressions
-------------------

Goja uses the embedded Go regexp library where possible, otherwise it falls back to [regexp2](https://github.com/dlclark/regexp2).

Exceptions
----------

Any exception thrown in JavaScript is returned as an error of type *Exception. It is possible to extract the value thrown
by using the Value() method:

```go
vm := New()
_, err := vm.RunString(`

throw("Test");

`)

if jserr, ok := err.(*Exception); ok {
    if jserr.Value().Export() != "Test" {
        panic("wrong value")
    }
} else {
    panic("wrong type")
}
```

If a native Go function panics with a Value, it is thrown as a Javascript exception (and therefore can be caught):

```go
var vm *Runtime

func Test() {
    panic(vm.ToValue("Error"))
}

vm = New()
vm.Set("Test", Test)
_, err := vm.RunString(`

try {
    Test();
} catch(e) {
    if (e !== "Error") {
        throw e;
    }
}

`)

if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
```

Interrupting
------------

```go
func TestInterrupt(t *testing.T) {
    const SCRIPT = `
    var i = 0;
    for (;;) {
        i++;
    }
    `

    vm := New()
    time.AfterFunc(200 * time.Millisecond, func() {
        vm.Interrupt("halt")
    })

    _, err := vm.RunString(SCRIPT)
    if err == nil {
        t.Fatal("Err is nil")
    }
    // err is of type *InterruptError and its Value() method returns whatever has been passed to vm.Interrupt()
}
```

NodeJS Compatibility
--------------------

There is a [separate project](https://github.com/dop251/goja_nodejs) aimed at providing some of the
NodeJS functionality by dop251 (the original author of goja).
